index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

![Descriptive Alt Text](images/image1.jpg)

## 👋 Welcome to My GitHub Pages!

### About Me

Hello! I'm **Pedram Torabian**, a passionate researcher and data scientist with a strong background in bioinformatics, genomics, and machine learning. Currently pursuing a **Master of Medical Science** at the **University of Calgary**, I leverage my expertise in R, Python, and high-performance computing to analyze complex biological data. My work focuses on spatial transcriptomics, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and deploying machine learning techniques to uncover insights in cancer research and other genetic disorders.

## 🌱 My Journey

From the early days of my academic career, I immersed myself in the fascinating realms of genetics and molecular biology. Earning my Master of Human Genetics from Iran University, I delved deep into genetic disorders, population genetics, and advanced topics in human genetics. This foundation paved the way for my pursuit of a Master of Medical Science at the University of Calgary, where I honed my skills in bioinformatics and applied genomics.

Throughout my career, I've had the privilege of working with esteemed institutions like the Arnie Charbonneau Cancer Institute and the Alberta Machine Intelligence Institute (Amii). At the Cancer Institute, I spearheaded projects that integrated machine learning with spatial transcriptomics and single-cell RNA sequencing data, developing classifiers that predict cell identities with remarkable accuracy. My role at Amii involved creating educational content for AI applications in biology, bridging the gap between complex scientific concepts and accessible learning materials.

## 🛠️ Technical Skills

- **Programming Languages:** R, Python, Bash, Git
- **Data Analysis:** Spatial Transcriptomics, Single-cell RNA-seq, Bulk RNA-seq
- **Machine Learning:** Supervised & Unsupervised Techniques, XGBoost
- **Statistical Analysis:** Kruskal-Wallis Test, Mann-Whitney U Test, ANOVA
- **Bioinformatics Tools:** Seurat, CellPhoneDB, CellChat, DESeq2, Monocle3, ssGSEA, GSVA
- **High-Performance Computing:** Slurm for managing compute jobs on HPC clusters

## 🎓 Education

- **Master of Medical Science**
  - University of Calgary
  - July 2020 – October 2024
  - GPA: 3.7/4.0
  - **Key Courses:** Intro Bioinformatics Resources, Advanced Bioinformatics, Tumor Microenvironment Dynamics, Intro Biostat Methods, Applied Genomics, Tumor Immunology and Therapy

- **Master of Human Genetics**
  - Iran University
  - September 2013 – February 2016
  - GPA: 3.5/4.0
  - **Key Courses:** Genetics Engineering, Advanced Topics in Human Genetics, Population Genetics

## 💼 Professional Experience

- **Content Development Support - Educational Product**
  - Alberta Machine Intelligence Institute (Amii)
  - April 2024 – June 2024
  - Created educational content for the "Using AI in Biology & Life Sciences" MOOC, enhancing the learning experience for students and professionals.

- **Research Assistant**
  - Arnie Charbonneau Cancer Institute, University of Calgary
  - July 2020 – Present
  - *Responsibilities:*
    - Machine Learning Classifier Development
    - Statistical Analysis
    - Single-Cell Analysis
    - Data Integration
    - Bulk RNA-seq Deconvolution

- **Research Assistant**
  - Razavi Hospital, Iran
  - November 2016 – October 2019
  - *Responsibilities:*
    - Led genetic projects
    - Authored comprehensive reviews
    - Investigated medical conditions

- **Molecular Biologist and Stem Cell Intern**
  - November 2011 – May 2012
  - *Responsibilities:*
    - Mastered laboratory techniques in molecular biology and stem cell biology

## 🏆 Awards & Achievements

- **Griffith University Postgraduate Research Scholarship (GUPRS)**
  - Awarded $28,092 AUD – December 2019

- **Top 2% Ranking**
  - Among participants in the national master's level entrance exam – September 2013

- **Top 1% Ranking**
  - Nationwide in the Iran national entrance exam – September 2008

## 📂 Featured Projects

### **Machine Learning Classifier for Spatial Transcriptomics**
Developed a robust machine learning classifier in R and Python to analyze spatial transcriptomics data, accurately predicting cell identities based on gene expression profiles. Utilized algorithms like XGBoost and integrated Seurat for data analysis.

### **Single-Cell RNA-seq Data Integration**
Led the analysis of 30 GB of single-cell RNA-seq data from ten samples using Seurat, identifying cell type-specific marker genes and compiling a comprehensive marker gene list for diverse cellular population detection.

### **Computational Deconvolution of Bulk RNA-seq Data**
Applied four computational deconvolution methods to bulk RNA-seq data from pancreatic cancer samples in TCGA, uncovering gene expression variations related to stromal levels in the tumor microenvironment, providing insights into cancer progression.

## 📈 GitHub Stats

![Pedram's GitHub Stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=Pedramto89&show_icons=true&theme=radical)
![Top Langs](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=Pedramto89&layout=compact&theme=radical)

## 📫 Get in Touch

I'm always open to discussing innovative research, collaborations, or new opportunities. Feel free to reach out via:

- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pedram-torabian)
- [Email](mailto:pedram.torabian@ucalgary.ca)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/Pedramto89)

Commit message:

Update index.md-Add new My Journey

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

![Descriptive Alt Text](images/image1.jpg)

## 👋 Welcome to My GitHub Pages!

### About Me

Hello! I'm **Pedram Torabian**, a passionate researcher and data scientist with a strong background in bioinformatics, genomics, and machine learning. Currently pursuing a **Master of Medical Science** at the **University of Calgary**, I leverage my expertise in R, Python, and high-performance computing to analyze complex biological data. My work focuses on spatial transcriptomics, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and deploying machine learning techniques to uncover insights in cancer research and other genetic disorders.


## 🌱 My Journey
My scientific journey began as a wet lab researcher, where I earned my **Master of Human Genetics** with expertise in genetic engineering, population genetics, and biostatistics. This foundation in experimental biology proved invaluable as I advanced to the **Medical Science Program with Cancer Biology Specialization** at the **University of Calgary**, where I pioneered research in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) tumor microenvironment.

At the **Arnie Charbonneau Cancer Institute**, I was among the first researchers to implement spatial transcriptomics (Nature Method of the Year, 2020) in PDAC studies using Visium 10X Genomics technology. This groundbreaking work required mastery of both experimental techniques and advanced computational methods, including single-cell RNA-seq analysis, bulk RNA-seq, protein-protein interaction mapping, and computational functional assessment through ssGSEA.

My unique strength lies in bridging wet and dry lab expertise, allowing me to approach biological problems with comprehensive insight. I've successfully applied both supervised and unsupervised machine learning algorithms to analyze complex biological datasets. Through leading multiple experimental and computational projects, I've developed strong leadership skills that complement my technical expertise. This dual perspective - combining hands-on laboratory experience with computational proficiency - enables me to drive innovative solutions in modern biological research.

## 🛠️ Technical Skills

- **Programming Languages:** R, Python, Bash, Git
- **Data Analysis:** Spatial Transcriptomics, Single-cell RNA-seq, Bulk RNA-seq
- **Machine Learning:** Supervised & Unsupervised Techniques, XGBoost
- **Statistical Analysis:** Kruskal-Wallis Test, Mann-Whitney U Test, ANOVA
- **Bioinformatics Tools:** Seurat, CellPhoneDB, CellChat, DESeq2, Monocle3, ssGSEA, GSVA
- **High-Performance Computing:** Slurm for managing compute jobs on HPC clusters

## 🎓 Education

- **Master of Medical Science**
  - University of Calgary
  - July 2020 – October 2024
  - GPA: 3.7/4.0
  - **Key Courses:** Intro Bioinformatics Resources, Advanced Bioinformatics, Tumor Microenvironment Dynamics, Intro Biostat Methods, Applied Genomics, Tumor Immunology and Therapy

- **Master of Human Genetics**
  - Iran University
  - September 2013 – February 2016
  - GPA: 3.5/4.0
  - **Key Courses:** Genetics Engineering, Advanced Topics in Human Genetics, Population Genetics

## 💼 Professional Experience

- **Content Development Support - Educational Product**
  - Alberta Machine Intelligence Institute (Amii)
  - April 2024 – June 2024
  - Created educational content for the "Using AI in Biology & Life Sciences" MOOC, enhancing the learning experience for students and professionals.

- **Research Assistant**
  - Arnie Charbonneau Cancer Institute, University of Calgary
  - July 2020 – Present
  - *Responsibilities:*
    - Machine Learning Classifier Development
    - Statistical Analysis
    - Single-Cell Analysis
    - Data Integration
    - Bulk RNA-seq Deconvolution

- **Research Assistant**
  - Razavi Hospital, Iran
  - November 2016 – October 2019
  - *Responsibilities:*
    - Led genetic projects
    - Authored comprehensive reviews
    - Investigated medical conditions

- **Molecular Biologist and Stem Cell Intern**
  - November 2011 – May 2012
  - *Responsibilities:*
    - Mastered laboratory techniques in molecular biology and stem cell biology

## 🏆 Awards & Achievements

- **Griffith University Postgraduate Research Scholarship (GUPRS)**
  - Awarded $28,092 AUD – December 2019

- **Top 2% Ranking**
  - Among participants in the national master's level entrance exam – September 2013

- **Top 1% Ranking**
  - Nationwide in the Iran national entrance exam – September 2008

## 📂 Featured Projects

### **Machine Learning Classifier for Spatial Transcriptomics**
Developed a robust machine learning classifier in R and Python to analyze spatial transcriptomics data, accurately predicting cell identities based on gene expression profiles. Utilized algorithms like XGBoost and integrated Seurat for data analysis.

### **Single-Cell RNA-seq Data Integration**
Led the analysis of 30 GB of single-cell RNA-seq data from ten samples using Seurat, identifying cell type-specific marker genes and compiling a comprehensive marker gene list for diverse cellular population detection.

### **Computational Deconvolution of Bulk RNA-seq Data**
Applied four computational deconvolution methods to bulk RNA-seq data from pancreatic cancer samples in TCGA, uncovering gene expression variations related to stromal levels in the tumor microenvironment, providing insights into cancer progression.

## 📈 GitHub Stats

![Pedram's GitHub Stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=Pedramto89&show_icons=true&theme=radical)
![Top Langs](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=Pedramto89&layout=compact&theme=radical)

## 📫 Get in Touch

I'm always open to discussing innovative research, collaborations, or new opportunities. Feel free to reach out via:

- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pedram-torabian)
- [Email](mailto:pedram.torabian@ucalgary.ca)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/Pedramto89)
